I'm broadly interested in the modeling and control of complex systems.

In high-energy physics (HEP), this mainly refers to particle detectors like ATLAS and CMS. I'm currently a [WATCHEP](https://watchep.org) Fellow, for which I'm working on two computational HEP projects. 

The first is the development of TorchDelphes: a PyTorch-based, differentiable version of the Delphes simulation software. This was recently released as part of [Parnassus](https://arxiv.org/abs/2606.26089), an all-in-one toolkit for simulating high-energy collision events via generative ML models, or parametric ones like TorchDelphes. TorchDelphes enables autodifferentiable optimization (e.g. stochastic gradient descent) of simulation parameters for enhanced sensitivity in phenomenology studies. We are currently working on the first such training run.  

The other project is the development of a generative unfolding algorithm to invert detector effects in HEP data. This algorithm uses iterative likelihood-based unfolding in order to converge to the maximum-likelihood estimate, like Iterative Bayesian Unfolding and OmniFold. Moreover, it utilizes a generative model to directly produce an augmented dataset that automatically produces the true (unfolded) distributions, rather than a set of weights to histogram the uncorrected/distorted dataset.

I also design FPGA algorithms for the ATLAS detector at CERN, mainly for the low-latency readout of data from the Pixel subdetector, which is responsible for charged-particle tracking. In the past, I published a [feasibility study](https://www.frontiersin.org/journals/big-data/articles/10.3389/fdata.2022.828666/full) on the use of FPGA-deployed graph neural networks for online, sub-microsecond particle tracking during collision events.

On the materials-science side of things, "complex systems" refers to *thin-film deposition*. This is a family of material synthesis techniques for growing crystalline lattice structures by iteratively depositing plasma, atomic, or molecular gaseous plumes onto a substrate at very high frequencies. As part of the [FastRHEED](https://github.com/abdelabd/CoaxlinkOcto_1cam_2404) project, I've led the design and development of an FPGA-accelerated, self-supervised ML pipeline for real-time, in-situ characterization of such materials as they are being grown. This design will enable researchers to study, and control, the highly energetic and non-equilibrium dynamics of thin-film deposition.